"Geography Objective Questions ,1. Which of the following rocks is different from the remaining three on the basis of its mode of origin?"	 Limestone	 Sandstone	 Shale	 Marble	D2. Which of the following land forms is not associated with river erosion?	 Waterfall	 V-shaped valley	 Moraines	 Ox-bow lake	C3. Which of the following latitudes is the longest?	 23Â°N	 66Â°N	 0Â°	 80Â°N	C4. Two places on the same meridian must have the same	 Length of summer	 Length of winter	 Latitude	 Solar time	D"5. When it is 6.00 AM on 0Â° meridian, at the same time what time would be there in India?"	 6.30 AM	 9.30 AM	 11.30 AM	 5.30 AM	C6. Which of the following processes helps in the formation of rift valley?	 Seismism	 Faulting	 Folding	 Volcanism	B7. Which of the following names is given to the planetary winds blowing between the tropics?	 Monsoon	 Polar winds	 Westerlies	 Trade winds	D8. Which of the following cities is not located on Varanasi-Chennai rail-route?	 Hyderabad	 Nagpur	 Jabalpur	 Allahabad	D9. Where is Dead Sea situated in the following continents?	 Europe	 Australia	 Asia	 Africa	C10. Which of the following industries is most developed in the Great Lakes region of North America?	 Cement and Paper	 Steel and Engineering	 Film industry	 Textile and Chemicals	B11. Which of the following group of countries is most famous for exporting wool and meat?	" Australia, Sri Lanka, Indonesia"	" Argentina, France, Chile"	" Australia, Argentina, New Zealand"	" New Zealand, Argentina, Italy"	C12. Which of the following soils is most suitable for the cultivation of cotton in India?	 Red soil	 Laterite soil	 Alluvial soil	 Regur soil	D13. Which of the following state groups is the largest producer of iron-ore in India?	" Orissa, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar"	" Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab"	" Maharashtra, Orissa, Andhra Pradesh"	" Bihar, W. Bengal, Orissa"	A14. Which of the following landforms is different from other three on the basis of the mode of origin?	 Fold	 Anticline	 Nappes	 Rift Valley	D15. Which of the following landform is not associated with glaciation?	 Hanging valley	 Moraines	 Inselberg	 Drumlin	C16. Which of the following order is given to the planets of solar system on the basis of their size?	" Saturn, Jupitar, Mercury, Neptune"	" Jupitar, Saturn, Neptune, Mercury"	" Jupitar, Mercury, Neptune, Saturn"	" Neptune, Mercury, Saturn, Jupitar"	B"17. As we go higher into the atmosphere, the air becomes	 Thinner	 Denser	 Warmer	 Visible	A18. From which of the following longitude the Indian standard time is determined?	 82Â° 30' East	 80Â° West	 90Â° East	 81Â° 30' East	A19. Which of the following oceans are connected by Panama Canal?	 Pacific and Atlantic	 Atlantic and Indian Ocean	 Indian Ocean and Pacific	 Atlantic and North Ocean	A20. For which crop production is 'Saopalo' famous?	 Cotton	 Maize	 Coffee	 Tea	C21. Which of the following State group is largest producer of mineral oil in India?	" Gujarat, U. P., Maharashtra"	" Maharashtra, W. Bengal, Assam"	" Assam, U. P., Bihar"	" Assam, Gujarat, Maharashtra"	D22. Which of the following water-ways does not pass through the Panama Canal?	 London-Honolulu.	 New York-San francisco	 New York-Buenos Aires	 New York-Sydney	C23. Which of the following latitudes is a great circle?	 Equator	 66Â°N	 20Â°S	 23Â°S	A24. Which of the following city is not located on Delhi-Kolkata rail route?	 Kanpur	 Allahabad	 Gaya	 Varanasi	D25. Which of the following industries is famous in the Ruhr industrial region of Europe?	 Textile and Chemicals	 Steel and Engineering	 Cement and Paper	 Ship building	B"26. If the direction of the earth's rotation on its axis is east-west, what would be the direction of Trade wind blowing in Southern hemisphere?"	 South-West	 South-East	 North-East	 North-West	B27. The coldest hour of the day is approximately	 5 a.m.	 9 p.m.	 3 a.m.	 10 a.m.	C28. Which of the followings is fibre mineral?	 Zinc	 Asbestos	 Coal	 Asphalt	B30. What is Isthmus?	 The mouth of a river where it joins the sea	 A narrow strip of sea dividing two oceans	 A narrow strip of land joining two seas or oceans	 A piece of projected land	C31. Which of the following phenomena causes the shape of the Earth ?	 Internal structure	 Atmospheric pressure	 Rotation	 Revolution	C32. Which of the following is the location of a point on the globe that is antipodal to 65Â° North Latitude and 30Â° East Longitude?	" 65Â° North Lat., 30Â° West Long"	" 30Â° South Lat., 65Â° East Long"	" 65Â° South Lat., 150Â° West Long"	" 30Â° North Lat., 65Â° West Long"	C"33. The surface of the earth is still irregular inspite of millions of years of gradation, because:"	 Gradation is a slow process	 Gradation does not reduce irregularities	 Deposition of material re-elevates the land	 Parts of the crust have been uplifted	D34. What would result if the sedimentary deposit of the Ganga Plain is compressed between the Himalayas and the Deccan Plateau and then uplifted?	 Block mountain	 Fold mountain	 Rift valley	 Volcanic plateau	B35. What would happen to ocean water if the moon comes nearer to the earth ?	 Fall of temperature	 Stopping of ocean currents	 Rise of sea level	 Increase in height of oceanic tides	D36. The line joining places of equal atmospheric pressure is termed:	 Contour	 Isohyet	 Isotherm	 Isobar	D37. What would happen to types of rainfall if the earth's surface becomes all plain?	 No cyclonic rainfall	 No orographic rainfall	 No convectional rainfall	 No frontal rainfall	B38. The maximum risk to air travel is from:	 Clouds	 Rainfall	 Fogs	 Strong winds	C39. Which one of the following countries is the largest producer of rice in the world?	 China	 Japan	 Philippines	 Bangladesh	A40. Which of the following countries possesses a strong natural resource base for iron and steel industry ?	 Russia	 Pakistan	 Japan	 Bangladesh	A"41. The present day search for fuels alternative to petroleum, is due mainly to:"	 Iran-Iraq war	 Strained relations between Israel and Middle East countries	 Highly increased cost of petroleum	 Increase in the consumption of petroleum	D42. What is the population density of a District which has 50 Lakh people and 25 thousand square kilometres area?	 50 persons per sq. km.	 100 persons per sq. km.	 150 persons per sq. km.	 200 persons per sq. km.	D43. The Savana type of climate is characterized by:	 Humid summers and humid winters	 Humid summers and dry winters	 Humid winters and dry summers	 Humid throughout the year	B"44. Given below are the climate data of a particular station. In which of the following natural regions is the station located,Temperature::Rainfall,(Degrees Centigrade)::(Centimetres),January::23.3::1.8,February::23.3::1.8,March::21.1::2.5,April::17.8::4.6,May::14.4::7.1,June::12.2::7.9,July::11.1::6.9,August::12.3::6.3,September::13.9::5.1,October::16.7::4.3,November::19.4::3.0,December::27.7::2.5"	 Warm temperate East coast type	 Warm temperate West coast type	 Warm temperate Continent type	 Hot deserts	B45. Which of the following groups of countries is arranged in descending order of area?	" Russia, Canada, China, U.S.A."	" Russia, U.S.A. Canada, China"	" Russia, Canada, U.S.A., China"	" Russia, China, U.S.A., Canada"	A46. Which of the following Industrial Regions of USA is located mainly on the basis of hydroelectric power?	" The New York, Philadelphia, Baltimore region"	 The Southern New England Region	 The Southern Lake Michigan Region	 The Detroit Region	B47. What should India increase in order to become one of the most prosperous countries of the world?	 Food production	 Industrial production	 Population	 Trade	B"48. Water power potential of India is great, but it has not been developed to its full extent. The major deterrant being that:"	 Coal is available in plenty therefore it is not necessary to develop water power	 Raw materials required for the production of electric transformers are not available in India	 Rainfall is seasonal and as such requires costly storage resevoirs	 Lack of technical skill hinders the development of water power	C49. Which of the following regions has almost prevalent types of natural vegetation in India?	 The Himalaya mountain	 The Deccan Plateau	 The Ganga plain	 The Coastal plains	C50. For which of the following manufacturing industries does India have the most natural resources?	 Glass Synthetic rubber	 Synthetic rubber	 Iron and Steel	 Aluminium	C51. One of the characteristics of India's population is lesser number of women compared to men. Which one of the following explains this phenomenon?	 Excess males at birth	 Lower social status of women	 Neglect of females in childhood	 High maternity mortality	C52. The basic unit of settlement recurring throughout India is the village. Which of the following criteria is largely responsible for the selection of village sites?	 Behavioural patterns of the community	 Availability of flat land	 Essential resources like water and fuel	 Fuel resources and building materials	C53. Which one of the following factors accounts largely for the dispersal of cotton textile industry from its original location around Bombay?	" The development of transportation, especially railways"	 Extreme congestion in Mumbai and lack of space	 The development of hydro-electric power	 Improved technology	B54. The main cause for Uttar Pradesh becoming the most important agricultural state of India is:	 Good cultivators	 Good climate	 Large market	 Extensive fertile plain	D55. What locational advantage does India possess for International trade?	 Central location in the Eastern hemisphere	 Location in the middle of the developing countries	 Location at the sourthern end of Asia	 Location on the east-west oceanic route through the Suez Canal	D56. The longest dam is:	 Aswan	 Hirakud	 Gorky	 Mangla	B57. Which state in India is the largest producer of Saffron?	 Jammu and Kashmir	 Sikkim	 Himachal Pradesh	 Gujarat	A58. Which is the largest man-made lake in India?	 Chilka	 Dal	 Sambhar	 Bhakra	D59. Where is the Gol Dumoaz located?	 Andhra Pradesh	 Maharashtra	 Kamataka	 Gujarat	C60. Gulmarg is a hill station in:	 Himachal Pradesh	 Jammu and Kashmir	 Maharashtra	 Tamil Nadu	B61. The largest producer of cashewnut in India is:	 Kerala	 Gujarat	 Orissa	 Tamil Nadu	A62. Lal Bahadur National Academy of Administration is situated in:	 Pune	 Kolkata	 Dehradun	 Mussoorie	D63. In what state is 'Rana Pratap Sagar' atomic power plant located?	 Haryana	 Gujarat	 Rajasthan	 Karnataka	C64. Where is oil and Natural Gas Commission located?	 Haldia	 Dehradun	 Ankleshwar	 Cambay	B65. Which of the following is situated at Agra ?	 Paratroopers Training College	 National Police Academy	 Central Tractor Organisation	 Air Force Flying College	A66. The prevailing winds blowing from 30Â° S and 30Â° N towards the equator are termed as:	 Monsoon winds	 Antitrade winds	 Trade winds	 Polar winds	C67. Irrigation is necessary for areas receiving rainfall:	 Less than 200 cm.	 Less than 75 cm.	 Less than 125 cm.	 At uncertain times	B68. The reason for the necessity of irrigation in India is that:	 There is no rainfall at the time of need	 Indian crops require much water	 Indian farmers are in habit of watering the fields	 India is a hot country so water is easily evaporated	A69. Which one of the following sources of irrigation in India is not suitable?	 Canals	 Karez	 Wells	 Tanks	B"70. In which of the following states of India, tank irrigation is most suitable?"	 Tamil Nadu	 Punjab	 Uttar Pradesh	 Bihar	A72. In which of the following state is Tungabhadra project of irrigation?	 Bihar	 Andhra Pradesh	 Tamil Nadu	 Maharashtra	B73. How much part of India is irrigated by canals?	42%	60%	80%	25%	A74. From where the Sirhind canal takes off?	 At Okhla near Delhi	 From Fire-lake at Khadakwesla	 From Gomati at Banbansa	 From the SutIej at Rupar	D75. Where is Krishnaraja Sagar?	 In Kota	 In Udaipur	 In Mysore	 In Hyderabad	C76. The number of wells in South India is very low because:	 The people of South India do not like to take water from wells	 Wells are difficult to dig because of hard rock underneath the thin layer of the soil	 There is too much rainfall therefore wells are not needed	 The people of South India do not know how to dig wells	B77. For the production of wheat there should be:	 Cool and wet climate during its growing period but hot climate during the ripening period	 Sufficient heat but very little rainfall	 Sufficient heat and heavy rainfall	 Hot climate during the growing period but cool climate during the ripening period	A78. During the summer monsoon the Himalayas have rains on their:	 Southern and western slopes	 Northern and eastern slopes	 Northern and western slopes	 Southern and eastern slopes	D79. Which one of the following rivers originates from Amarkantak ?	 Son river	 Mahanadi	 Godavari river	 Sutlej river	A80. The rivers of South India are:	 Suitable for hydro electricity	 Suitable sources of canals	 Full of water throughout the year	 Suitable for nevigation	A81. Raining in Mumbai is:	 Mostly in summer	 Mostly in winter	 Throughout the year evenly	 Very rare	A82. The Climate of India is:	 Mediterrian type	 Equatorial type	 Desert type	 Monsoon type	D83. If Aravalli ranges were from east to west:	 There would be no difference at all	 Bengal would have been the dry area	 The western Rajasthan would never have been a desert	 Uttar Pradesh wold have been a desert	C84. The range of temperature of Mathura in comparison of Kolkata is:	 Too much	 Too little	 Zero	 Uniform	A85. The moist air masses that cause winter rains in the north-western region of India are part of:	" Trade winds,"	Westerlies	 Local disturbances	 Retreating monsoons	B86. The chief production in region having black soil is:	 Cotton	 Rice	 Wheat	 Tea	A87. Which one of the following soils found in India is the most useful for agriculture?	 Black or regur soil	 Alluvial soil	 Red and yellow soil	 Marshy soil	B"88. Kaziranga, the famous sanctuary of Assam is famous for:"	 Rhinoes	 Tigers	 Lions	 Elephants	A89. Sindri manufactures	 Silk	 Paper	 Steel	 Fertilizers	D90. Which one of the following forests is found in Sundarbans ?	 Evergreen forests	 Coniferous forests	 Coastal forests	 Deciduous forests	C91. The leaves of the plants of desert forests are:	 Pointed in shape	 Small sized and thorny	 Long	 Broad	B92. Railway coaches are made from:	 Shisham	 Deodar	 Teak	 Pine	B93. Which one of the following is the biggest producer of rice?	 West Bengal	 Punjab	 Madhya Pradesh	 Rajasthan	A94. What type of trees are found in the monsoon region?	 Broad leaf deciduous trees	 Evergreen trees	 Conifers	 Thorny bushes	A95. What type of climate is required for sugarcane?	 Dry and hot	 Hot and wet	 Cold and dry	 Cold and wet	B96. Sri Harikota situated in Andhra Pradesh is famous for:	 National Remote Sensing Agency	 Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre	 Satellite Control Centre	 Satellite Trackings and Ranging Station	C"97. A high ratio of non-workers to workers, as we have in India indicates:"	 High degree of cultural development	 A State of self-sufficiency	 The rich natural resources of the country	 A rapid growth of population	D98. What is Kolar ?	 Oil field in Assam	 A hydro-electric scheme in Bihar	 Gold fields in Karnataka	 A salt factory in Sambhal	C"99. Koderma, a place in Jharkhand is famous for:"	 Mica mining centre	 Photogoods	 Cement factory	 Leather goods	A100. Which one of the following states produces silver in abundance?	 Orissa	 Rajasthan	 Kerala	 West Bengal	B101. What is the number of India among the producers of manganese ore in the world?	 Second	 First	 Third	 None	C102. Which of the following is an igneous rocks?	 Limestone	 Slate	 Marble	 Basalt	D103. Blue mountains are:	 The Vindyas	 The Nilgiri hills	 The Himalayas	 The Aravali ranges	B"104. The new name of Calicut, a famous city of Kerala is:"	 Kozhikode	 Trivendrum	 Kalighat	 Koderma	A105. The largest producer of Coco in Africa is:	 Ghana	 Sudan	 Nigeria	 Ivory Coast	A106. Which state in India has highest population?	 Maharashtra	 Uttar Pradesh	 West Bengal	 Bihar	B107. According to the census of 2001 which of the following cities in India has the maximum population?	 Mumbai	 Kolkata	 New Delhi	 Chennai	A108. The only state in India that shows an excess of females over males is:	 Kerala	 Punjab	 Andhra Pradesh	 Assam	A109. The Farakka Barrage has been constructed on the river:	 Hugli	 Brahmaputra	 Bhagirathi	 Padmini	A110. The Gandhi Sagar dam has been constructed on the boundary of Rajasthan and:	 Orissa	 Madhya Pradesh	 Haryana	 Himachal Pradesh	B111. Name the river whose water is utilized by Kakrapara project:	 Mahanadi	 Tunghbhadra	 Damodar	 Tapti	D112. Which state in India occupies the first place in literacy:	 Uttar Pradesh	 Tamil Nadu	 Kerala	 Karnatak	C113. Which State or Union Territory of India has the lowest literacy?	 Bihar	 Arunachal Pradesh	 Manipur	 Nagaland	A114. Where is the headquarter of the Centre Board of Film censors?	 Mumbai	 Pune	 Chandigarh	 Kolkata	A115. The highest number of cotton mills in India is :	 Ahmedabad	 Mumbai	 Coimbatore	 Kolkata	A116. Churk is famous for:	 Cement factory	 Paper factory	 Sugar factory	 Carpet	A117. The biggest newsprint paper mill of India is at:	 Titagarh	 Ballarpur	 Nepanagar	 Saharanpur	C118. Bhilai Steel works has been built with the foreign collaboration of the:	 British	 Russians	 Germans	 Americans	B119. The biggest number of sugar mills in India is in the state:	 Bihar	 Maharashtra	 Tamil Nadu	 Uttar Pradesh	D120. The biggest number of jute mills in India is on the bank of the river:	 Hooghly	 Mahandi	 Brahmputra	 Cauvery	A121. The biggest number of jute mills in India is in West Bengal because:	 This is the region of raw materials for jute products	 The climate is suitable	 It is near the consuming area	 Cheap supply of labour is available here	A122. Which one of the following is the centre for cycle industry ?	 Firozabad	 Sonipat	 Allahabad	 Nagpur	B123. Wet climate is suitable for cotton textile Industry because:	 Cotton yarn cannot be spun successfully under dry conditions	 The efficiency of the workers increases	 The rate of damage of machinery is decreased	 The rate of consumption electric power is decreased	A124. 'Lalimli Mill' is in the town:	 Amritsar	 Faridabad	 Kanpur	 Ludhiana	C125. Which one of the following cities in India is famous for gold wire embroidery on silken sarees even in foreign countries?	 Agra	 Varanasi	 Srinagar	 Tatanagar	B126. Dalda brand vegetable Product is manufactured in:	 Mumbai	 Kanpur	 Modinagar	 Ghaziabad	A127. Which one of the following towns in famous for glass bangles all over India?	 Sirampur	 Naini	 Mumbai	 Firozabad	D128. Which is the longest road of India?	 Pathankot Jammu Road	 Great Deccan Road	 Grand Trunk Road	 Mahatma Gandhi Road	C129. Dum Dum airport is in:	 Mumbai	 Kolkata	 Delhi	 Chennai	B130. At present what is the length of Western Railway line?	" 6,475 kms"	" 10,973 kms"	" 7,051 kms"	" 7,160 kms"	A131. The 'Head Quarters' of North East Railway is at:	 Delhi	 Gorakhpur	 Lucknow	 Kanpur	B"132. For going to Kashmir, the railway route is:"	 Northern Railway	 North-East Railway	 Eastern Railway	 Western Railway	A133. The Golden Temple Express runs between:	 New Delhi and Madurai	 Delhi and Howrah	 Amritsar and C.S.T.	 Ferozpur and Bombay V.T.	C134. Where is the Railway Staff College situated?	 Ahmedabad	 Vadodara	 Chandausi	 Varanasi	B135. The Diesel Locomotive Works is situated at:	 Varanasi	 Kolkata	 Chitranjan	 Jamshedpur	A136. Which of the following trains runs between C. S. T. to Pune ?	 Rajdhani Express	 Deccan Queen	 Avadh Express	 Jayanti Janta	B137. Chitranjan is famous for:	 Airport	 Ship building	 Production of electric and diesel locomotives	 Air craft factory	C138. Inland Air services in India are run by the:	 Air India	 Air services of India	 Indian Air lines	 Air Bharat	C139. Which of the states of India ranks first in tribal population?	 Assam	 Bihar	 Chhatisgarh	 Tamil Nadu	C140. What is the rank of India in the world with respect to the population?	 Second	 First	 Third	 None	A142. The maximum density of population of India is in the state:	 West Bengal	 Uttar Pradesh	 Kerala	 Haryana	A143. What do you mean by the term density of population of a country ?	 The average number of deaths per annum	 The average number of births per annum	 The average number of people living in one hectare	 The average number of people living in one square kilometre	D144. Chandigarh is the capital of:	 Punjab	 Haryana	 Punjab and Haryana	 Himachal Pradesh	C145. The Capital of Karnatak state is:	 Hyderabad	 Bangalore	 Warangal	 Tiruvanantpuram	B146. The biggest meteorological laboratory of India is in:	 Pune	 Jaipur	 Patna	 Kanpur	A147. Which one of the following is the centre of Higher Technical education?	 Bhilai	 Kharagpur	 Srinagar	 Mathura	B148. Which one of the following ports has replaced Karachi ?	 Kandla	 Mumbai	 Surat	 Cochin	A149. Which is the best natural port of India?	 Kolkata	 Chennai	 Mumbai	 Kandla	C150. Kakrapara Project is an irrigation project on the river of:	 Mahi	 Tapti	 Narmada	 Godavari	B151. Bidi is manufactured in:	 Jabalpur	 Ajmer	 Gwalior	 Indore	A"152. The natural sea port from where spices, tea, coffee, sugar and coconut oil are exported, is:"	 Kandla	 Chennai	 Vishakhapatnam	 Cochin	D153. Which one of the following is known as 'Pittsburg of India' ?	 Baroda	 Rourkela	 Jamshedpur	 Durgapur	C154. India imports chiefly from:	 Iran	 Russia	 Britain	 United State of America	D155. The maximum export of India is to:	 United States of America	 Germany	 Russia	 Britain	A156. The most leading port of India for import is:	 Mumbai	 Kandla	 Kolkata	 Chennai	A157. Which of the following states produces asbestos in abundance?	 Bihar	 Rajasthan	 Andhra Pradesh	 Gujarat	B158. Which is the richest state of India from the point of view of minerals?	 Kerala	 Bihar	 Maharashtra	 Madhya Pradesh	D159. Which one of the following states is such whose inhabitants are mostly Christians?	 Nagaland	 Manipur	 Tamil Nadu	 Tripura	A160. Which one of the following languages is used in Tripura ?	 Hindi	 Mizo	 Khasi	 Bengali	D161. Which one of the following states is famous for sandal wood?	 Andhra Pradesh	 Kerala	 Karnataka	 Tamil Nadu	C162. Which state of India is known as land of paradise?	 Uttar Pradesh	 Jammu and Kashmir	 Haryana	 Assam	B"163. In India, which coast receives rainfall from North East monsoon:"	 Konkan Coast	 Malabar Coast	 Coromandal Coast	 Gujarat Coast	C164. Which country is called the Sugar Bowl of the World ?	 India	 Cuba	 U.S.A.	 Indonesia	B165. The Islands of Cloves is:	 Zanzibar	 New Zealand	 Sri Lanka	 Cuba	A166. Croydon is an international air port of:	 U. S. A.	 France	 U. K.	 India	C167. Which country is associated with 'kiwis' ?	 Phillippines	 New Zealand	 Malaysia	 Indonesia	B168. What is the new name of Siam ?	 Thailand	 Canton	 Taiwan	 Timor	A169. The capital of Norway is:	 Copenhagan	 Oslo	 Beirut	 Canton	B170. Kalahari deert is in:	 North Africa	 South Africa	 South America	 Australia	B"171. Dead sea a salt water lake, is locatted between:"	 Israel and Jordan	 Egypt and Libya	 Israel and Lebanon	 Morocco and Spain	A172. Which river forms the boundary line between Uttar Pradesh and Haryana ?	 Sutlej	 Yamuna	 Ganga	 Parvati	B173. Britain and France and divided by the natural boundary of:	 The Alps	 The English Channel	 The river Thames	 The river Seine	B174. The coldest place of the world is in:	 Verkhoyansk	 Nr. Vostok	 Ust' Shchugor	 Snag	B175. Which is the hottest place of the word?	 A Aziziyah	 Seville	 Death Valley	 Jacobabad	A176. Which country is the biggest producer of tea in the world?	 India	 Russia	 China	 Brazil	A177. Which country is the biggest producer of rubber in the world?	 Malaysia	 Sri Lanka	 Thailand	 Brazil	A178. The Capital of Iran is:	 Bagdad	 Tehran	 Adan	 Basra	B179. Which of the following rivers is known as the 'Sorrow of China' ?	 Hwang Ho	 Amur	 Mekong	 Yangteesi-Kiang	A180. What is the main industrial production in Switzerland?	 Cotton textile	 Motor-cars	 Watch and clocks	 Cement	C181. Paris is famous for:	 Museum and library	 Fashion and decoration	 Healthy climate	 Dairy industry	B182. Which country of Europe is famous for dairy industry?	 Denmark	 Norway	 Sweden	 Switzerland	A183. Which is the river that originates from Black Forest and falls in Black sea?	 Rhine	 Oder	 Danube	 Don	C184. Which is the longest river of Europe ?	 Danube	 Volga	 Rhine	 Seine	B185. Which country of Europe is known as the 'Country of Lakes' ?	 Finland	 Italy	 France	 Spain	A186. Which is the mountain between the Black sea and Caspian sea?	 Ural	 Caucasus	 Alps	 Balkan	B187. In which country of Europe is the active volcano of Vesuvius?	 Italy	 Norway	 France	 Germany	A188. Which of the two Seas are linked by the strait of Gibraltar ?	 Black Sea and Caspian Sea	 North Sea and Baltic Sea	 Atlantic Ocean and Mediterranean Sea	 Black Sea and Mediterranean Sea	C189. The Kiel canal links:	 Mediterranean and Black Sea	 Pacific and Atlantic oceans	 Mediterranean and Red Sea	 North Sea and Baltic Sea	D190. The chief wine producer of the world is:	 Great Britain	 Norway	 France	 Germany	C191. Which of the following has the greatest importance in commercial fisheries?	 Spain	 Dogger Banks	 Italy	 Portugal	B192. What is the chief import of U.K. ?	 Food stuffs and raw material	 Machines and rubber	 Wine and biscuits	 Iron and coal	A193. What is the chief mineral of Russia?	 Iron	 Coal	 Copper	 Tin	B194. Edinburgh is famous for:	 Higher education	 Iron industry	 Dairy industry	 Fish industry	A195. The longest railway line of the world is:	 Canadian Pacific Railway	 Cape-Cairo Railway	 Trans-Siberian Railway	 Paris-Constantinople Railway	C196. In which one of the following places the population is very low?	 Interior part of Spain	 North plain of Italy	 Southern part of Holland	 Plain of Douro in Portugal	A197. Chief Industry of Canada is:	 Wine	 Dairy	 Iron	 Wood pulp and paper	D198. The Capital of U.S.A. is:	 St. Louis	 San Francisco	 Washington D.C.	 Newyork	C199. Winnipeg is famous in the world for:	 Natural scenery	 Wheat centre	 High buildings	 Film industry	B"200. The name of the canal which links Pacific and Atlantic Ocean, is:"	 Panama	 Suez	 Kiel	 None of these	A201. The biggest lake of fresh water in the world is:	 Baikal lake	 Superior lake	 Nyasa lake	 Victoria lake	B202. Which one of the following towns is not the railway station of Canadian Pacific Railway?	 Regina	 Winning	 San Francisco	 Vancouver	C203. The river Mississipi falls in:	 The Gulf of Mexico	 Atlantic Ocean	 Pacific Ocean	 Superior lake	A204. Sierra Nevada is the name of:	 An animal of America	 A disease found in America	 A fruit found in America	 A mountain in America	D205. The biggest meat market of the world is in:	 London	 Boston	 Chicago	 Winnipeg	C206. Red Indians are the original inhabitants of:	 Africa	 North America	 Asia	 Europe	B207. Which part of North America is the most thinly populated?	 Alaska	 California	 Eastern Part of U.S.A.	 The region of great lakes	A208. What is exported from Halifax?	 Wood and its articles	 Fish and Fruits	 Petroleum	 Wheat	B209. What is the chief agricultural product of the U.S.A. ?	 Maize	 Cotton	 Barley	 Rice	A210. What is the chief occupation of Brazilians?	 Sugar Production	 Mining	 Producing Coffee	 Sheep rearing	C212. Which is the biggest river of South America?	 Amazon	 Peru	 Orinico	 Parana-Paraguay	A213. Where does the river Uruguay fall ?	 In Pacific ocean	 Titicaca lake	 In Carribean sea	 In Atlantic Ocean	D214. What is Uspallata in South America?	 An animal	 A lake	 A pass	 None of these	C"215. Which one of the following regions, comes under the equatorial climate?"	 Desert of Chile	 Amaion-basin	 Plain of Brazil	 Pampass	B216. Which one of the following countries is famous for the production of nitre?	 Chile	 Brazil	 Peru	 Columbia	A217. Which is the biggest port of Argentina?	 Bahia Blanca	 Buenos Aires	 La Plato	 Mar Del Plato	B218. The capital of Brazil is:	 Bahia Blanca	 Buenos Aires	 La Plato	 Brasilia	D219. The largest units of coir industry are located at:	 Kerala	 Andhra Pradesh	 Gujarat	 Haryana	A220. Which country of the South America is known as 'Granary of Europe' ?	 Argentina	 Chile	 Brazil	 Bolivia	A221. Atacama desert is in:	 Australia	 Asia	 Africa	 South America	D"222. The main region of the South America which produces wheat, is:"	 Peru	 Pampas	 Brazil	 Columbia	B"223. Which country of the South America, is the biggest producer of Petroleum?"	 Venezuela	 Peru	 Chile	 Brazil	A224. Which one of the following animals is found in South America?	 Lama	 Kangaroo	 Giraffe	 Gorilla	A225. The highest mountain peak in Africa is:	 Kenya	 Atlas	 Nyasa	 Kilimanjaro	D226. Which one of the following countries is not in Africa?	 Kenya	 Nigeria	 Bolivia	 Ethiopia	C227. What is the new name of the island of Madagascar ?	 Haitti	 Malagasy	 Mozambique	 Maputo	B"228. Kimberley, a town of South Africa is famous for:"	 Diamonds	 Goldmines	 Poisoneous Snakes	 Seaport	A"229. In which part of Africa, Sahara desert is situated?"	 Northern part	 Southern part	 Western part	 Eastern part	A"230. Africa is a hot continent, because:"	 There are many volcanoes	 There is a great Sahara desert	 The greater part of the continent lies within the equatorial type of climate	 This is a big producer of spices	C231. Which part of Africa has the highest population ?	 Valley of the river Niger	 Valley of the river Nile	 Valley of the river Congo	 Valley of the river Zambezi	B232. Which is the largest lake in Africa?	 Tanganyika	 Nyasa	 Edward	 Victoria	D233. What is said 'veld' in Africa?	 Savanna forest	 Equatorial forest	 Grass lands	 Tropical forest	C234. The river Zambezi originates from:	 Victoria lake	 Western Plateau	 Tanganyika lake	 Mt. Atlas	B235. Which one of the following is not in good number at the sea coasts of Africa?	 Rivers	 Islands	 Lakes	 Mountains	B236. The ore for aluminium is:	 Hematite	 Bauxite	 Laterite	 Pyrolusite	B237. Which one of the following is the largest lake in Rajasthan?	 Anasagar	 Pichhola	 Sambhar	 Udaisagar	C"238. In which part of Africa, Uranium is found?"	 Sahara	 Congo basin	 Sudan	 Rhodesia	B239. What is the most typical Australian tree?	 Oak	 Pine	 Eucalyptus	 Rubber	C240. What is the main mineral of Australia?	 Gold	 Silver	 Lead	 Diamond	A241. Kalgoorlie and coolgradie mines are in:	 Africa	 Australia	 North America	 Europe	B242. Murray and Darling rivers fall in:	 The gulf of Carpentaria	 Pacific ocean	 Encounter Bay	 Indian ocean	C243. The capital of Tasmania is:	 New castle	 Hobart	 Launceston	 Perth	B244. What is the chief export from New Zealand?	 Wool	 Oil	 Motor car	 Cigarette	A245. Which part of Australia receives rain throughout the year?	 Western part	 Eastern part	 Southern part	 Northern part	D246. Which of the following is the chief crop of Australia?	 Rice	 Maize	 Wheat	 Potato	C247. The chief imports of Australia is:	" Gold, cotton, iron and rice"	" Cigarettes, motorcars, cotton clothes, machines and Petroleum"	" Coal, iron and wool"	" Meat, wheat, silver and woolen clothes"	B248. The original inhabitants of New Zealand are known as:	 Maoris	 Bedouins	 Magyars	 Tartars	A"249. To which side of Australia, Fiji island is situated?"	 North-west side	 North-east side	 In South	 In West	B"250. In which of the foIlowing countries, the Christmas festival is celebrated in summer season?"	 New Zealand	 Germany	 Japan	 New Foundland	A251. Which one of the following food grains is grown in China in the largest quantity?	 Rye	 Barley	 Rice	 Maize	C252. The climate of South East Australia is cold because:	 It is very near to the equator	 It is a hilly highland	 It is very near to sea	 It is in the region of cold winds	B253. What is Great Barrier Reef?	 A belt of Coral along the east coasts of Australia	 A cave between Sydney and Malbourne	 A fish found area in the sea near New Zealand	 A mine situated in the Great Victoria Valley	A254. Paradeep port lies in:	 Kerala	 Orissa	 Andhra Pradesh	 Tamil Nadu	B255. A radio broadcast from Tokyo on Saturday at 12 noon should be heard at Vancouver:	 The same morning	 The same evening	 On Friday	 On Sunday	C256. Lines joining places receiving equal amount of rainfall are called:	 Isohalines	 Isobars	 Isotherms	 Isohyets	D257. Which State is the largest producer of manganese in India?	 Assam	 Rajasthan	 Madhya Pradesh	 Orissa	D258. Which is the largest cotton producing country in the world?	 Russia	 U.S.A.	 India	 Egypt	B259. The capital of Western Australia is:	 Sydney	 Canberra	 Malbourne	 Perth	D260. Which of the following has the smallest population ?	 Myanmar	 Canada	 Romania	 Australia	D261. The biggest island in the world is:	 New Guinea	 Borneo	 Greenland	 Sumatra	C262. They Sea port which does not have a petroleum refinery?	 Kandla	 Mangalore	 Chennai	 Cochin	A263. The largest lake in India is:	 Wular	 Sambhar	 Chika	 Dal	A264. Which of the following rivers occupies a riftvalley?	 Narmada	 Cauvery	 Mahanadi	 Sutlej	A265. Sindri is famous for:	 Oil refining	 Aluminium manufacture	 Machine-tool industry	 Fertilizer production	D266. The solar eclipse occurs when:	 The sun comes in between the moon and the earth	 The earth comes in between the sum and the moon	 The moon comes in between the sun and the earth	" The moon, the sun and the earth are in a straight line"	C"267. The spring tide occurs when the moon, the sun and the earth make in angle of:"	 180Â°	 90Â°	 45Â°	 33Â°	A268. Atacama is:	 A desert region of North Chile	 The grassland of Argentina	 The peninsular portion of Eastern Mexico	 A desert region in Southern California	A269. The Panama Canal shorterns the distance between:	 The Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean sea	 The Red sea and the Arabian sea	 The Pacific and the Atlantic oceans	 The Atlantic ocean and the Indian ocean	C270. The inclination of the earth's axis to plane of the orbit is:	 90Â°	 23Â_Â°	 66Â_Â°	 0Â°	B271. Which of the following towns is a modern planned town?	 Kolkata	 Varanasi	 Chennai	 Chandigarh	D"272. Some one travels from Kolkata to Delhi through the Gangetic plain, he would notice that the cultivation of wheat:"	 Decreases	 Increases	 First decreases and then increases	 First increases and then decreases	B273. Nuclear power station in Uttar Pradesh is at:	 Mathura	 Narora	 Lucknow	 Kanpur	B"274. The scandinavian countries are located in high latitudes. Parts of countries located in the same latitudes freeze during winter, but the ports located on the Norwegian coast do not freeze.,This is the mainly due to the fact that:"	 Many small rivers drain to the sea	 There is a chain of volcanoes	 The North Atlantic Drift flows past the coast	 The Westerlies blow from the South West	C275. Temperature varies from place to place with latitude and altitude. It may increase or decrease depending upon the factors that affect temperature. Certain anomalies may also develop on account of tmique combination of factors. The inversion of temperature would mean that the:	 Temperature decreases with elevation	 Temperature is constant at different eleations	 Temperature decreases and then increases with elevation	 Temperature changes along the same latitude	C"276. Natural vegetation of a region depends mainly on climate and hence there are distinctive areas of different types of vegetation. The governing factors in general are temperature, and precipitation. Accordingly, pine forests in India are found in:"	 The Sunderbans	 The Thar desert	 The Himalayas	 The Ganga plain	C277. India is an agricultural country and possesses fertile plains and numerous perennial rivers. About 72 per cent of its population resides in the rural areas. Nearly 70 per cent of the people are dependent on agriculture. About three-fourths of the cultivated land of India is used for food production because:	 The soil is suitable for food crops	 India is an exporter of food grains	 India has to feed a large population	 Per capita consumption of food in India is the highest in the world	A"278. A considerable part of our cotton, woollen and silk goods is produced on handlooms and powerlooms. Khaddar cloth is made out of handspun yarn. The Indian sarees which have become popular in the western world are produced in the decentralised sector. As many as five million people are employed in this sector. The number is bigger than the total number of persons employed in the organized industries and mining put together. The handloom and Khadi industry is located:"	 In the urban areas of India	 In the capital towns of the states	 Largely in the rural areas of India	 Only on the urban fringes	C279. The youngest folded mountain in India is:	 Vindhyas	 Aravallis	 Nilgiris	 Siwaliks	D280. Which of the followings is the shortest day in the southern hemisphere ?	 March 21	 June 21	 September 22	 December 23	B282. In which of the following minerals in India not self sufficient?	 Copper	 Iron ore	 Coal	 Mica	A283. The Mathura refinery gets its crude supply from:	 Assam oil fields	 Gujarat oil fields	 Bombay High	 Imported stock	C284. The highest peak of Peninsular India is ?	 Anaimudi	 Kalsubai	 Ooty	 Mahabaleswar	A"285. Nearly half of the total production of sugarcane in India comes from Uttar Pradesh alone, because:"	 The yield per hectare is the highest in U.P.	 The prevailing climate of U.P. is best suited for sugarcane cultivation	 Thick variety of sugarcane is cultivated in U.P.	 Area under sugarcane cultivation is the highest in U.P.	D286. The Tigris river flows mainly through:	 Turkey	 Syria	 Iraq	 Iran	C287. Which of the following is the largest producer of mineral oil in the world?	 Russia	 U.S.A.	 Saudi Arabia	 Kuwait	B288. The mediterranean climate is characterized by:	 Humid summers and humid winters	 Humid summers and dry winters	 Dry summers and dry winters	 Dry summers and humid winters	D289. Which of the following plants is used for making Kaththa ?	 Accacia arabica	 Accacia Catechu	 Accacia senegal	 Laccifer lacca	B290. The lower layer of the atmosphere is known as:	 Mesosphere	 Ionosphere	 Troposphere	 Stratosphere	C291. The line joining places which have the same height above mean sea level is called:	 Isohyte	 Isobar	 Contour line	 Isohaline	C292. The cold northern island of Japan is:	 Kyushu	 Konshu	 Kokkaido	 Shikoku	C293. Dandakaranya is located in:	 Northern India	 Central India	 Norther-Eastern India	 Southern India	B294. Which of the following is NOT a coal field?	 Raniganj	 Jharia	 Mosabani	 Korba	C295. The summer solstice in northern hemisphere occurs when the sun is directly overhead at noon on:	 The Tropic of Capricorn	 The Tropic of Cancer	 The equator	 None of the above	B296. Cactus is a plant usually found in:	 Flood plains	 Semiarid regions	 Deltaic regions	 Fresh water lakes	B297. Which of the following is a land locked country ?	 Afghanistan	 Myanmar (Burma)	 Philippines	 Israel	A298. The Bhakra Nangal dam is the largest producer of raw silk?	 Ravi	 Beas	 Sutlej	 Yamuna	C299. Which of the following is the largest producer of raw silk?	 Tamil Nadu	 Karnataka	 Andhra Pradesh	 Jammu and Kashmir	B300. The moon revolve round the earth in:	 30 days	 29 days	 28Â_ days	 27â…“ days	D301. The Tapti river rises from the:	 Vindhyan range	 Satpura range	 Maikal range	 Mahadev hills	D302. States with long coastal boundaries are producers of salt in India. However half of the country's sea salt production comes from Saurashtra-Gujarat. This is due to:	 Its longest coast line	 High salinity of sea water	 A large number of medium sized ports	 Well developed industrial market in the State	B303. The greatest deposits of loess are found in:	 New Zealand	 Central Europe	 China	 Argentina	C304. The general trend of Isotherms on the globe is:	 East-West	 North-South	 North-East	 South-West	A305. The rate of cooling of ascending air is:	 1Â°C for every 300 metres	 2Â°C for every 300 metres	 2.5Â°C for every 300 metres	 3Â°C for every 300 metres	B306. The diameter of moon is:	 3475 km	 3250 km	 3500 km	 3258 km	A307. A column of air 1 sq. cm. in cross-sectional area extending from sea-level to the top of the atmosphere weights approximately:	 933 g wt	 1033 g wt	 1136 g wt	 1360 g wt	B308. Drowned glaciated valleys in high latitude regions are known as:	 Fiords	 Ocean ridges	 Sub-marine canyons	 Glaciated valleys	A309. The doldrum area comes into the trade winds In:	 Autumn	 Summer	 Spring	 Winter	B310. Plant cover of Deserts in the world is:	 Tall grasses	 Perennial Xerophytic shrubs	 Dwarf trees	 Water storing plants	B311. Barchan dunes will tend to form in:	 Hot deserts	 Humid tropical areas	 Coastal areas	 Polar deserts	A"312. The earth while orbitting makes various angles with the sun's rays. On 22nd December, the rays are vertical on earth at:"	 23Â_Â°	 30Â° North	 23Â_Â° South	 30Â° South	C313. In which period people visit Hammerfest (about 71Â° N 24Â°E) to see the beauty of the Midnight Sun?	 March to May	 June to August	 September to November	 December to February	B314. Which one of the following has been formed differently from the other three?	 Peat	 Bituminus	 Lignite	 Graphite	D"315. If the locations of two places on the map are 60Â°N 90Â°E and 40Â°S 90Â°E, what is the direct distance in kilometres between these places?"	11100	10000	11000	11200	A316. North-Western parts of India get winter rainfall mainly due to:	 North-West monsoon	 Western disturbances	 North-East monsoon	 Retreating monsoon	B317. Which valley is formed as a result of tectonic forces?	 'V' -shaped valley	 'U' -shaped valley	 Hanging valley	 Rift valley	D318. Which forest is known for large scale lumbering ?	 Equatorial forests	 Mixed forests	 Coniferous forests	 Monsoon forests	C319. What is the chief characteristics of monsoon climate?	 Daily range of temperature very high	 Complete reversal of wind direction with the change of season	 Annual range of temperature very high	 Heavy rainfall mainly during winter	B320. Soils are usually formed by the process of:	 Erosion	 Deposition	 Denudation	 Weathering	D321. Which group of maps are the large scale maps?	 Atlas and wall maps	 Themetic and political maps	 Physical and weather maps	 Cadastral and Tourist Guide maps	D"322. If the R.F. of a map is 1 : 10,00,000 what could be its statement of scale?"	 1 cm-l0 km	 1 cm-l km	 1 cm-100 km	 1 cm-l000 km	A323. Sugar industry in India has a tendency to migrate towards south because:	 The soils of South India are highly suitable for cultivation of sugarcane	 The climate of South India is more suitable for the production of sugarcane	 The per capita consumption of sugar in the South is more than the North	 The winds coming from the Bay of Bengal and Arabian Sea increase the sugar content in the sugarcane	B324. Which of the following two rivers are navigable for big distances:	 Godavari and Tungbhadra	 Narmada and Tapti	 Ganga and Brahamputra	 Damodar and Kosi	C325. Gujarat is the largest producer of salt in India because:	 Its coastal waters are very saline	 It has extensive dry coast	 It has extensive shallow seas	 Its inhabitants are expert in preparing salt	A326. Which soil is formed differently from the other three soils?	 Regur	 Bhabar	 Bangar	 Khadar	A"327. Amongst the cereals, this has the largest production in India:"	 Wheat	 Maize	 Ric	 Barley	C328. The largest desert in the World is:	 Gobi	 Kalahari	 Patagonia	 Sahara	D329. Ruhr region is situated in:	 Poland	 Russia	 Germany	 France	C330. Earthquake waves are recorded in:	 Barograph	 Hydrograph	 Seismograph	 Pantagraph	C331. Which of these is young folded mountain?	 The Himalayas	 The Vindhyas	 The Nilgiris	 The Western Ghats	A332. Ankaleshwar is famous for:	 Gold mining	 Petrochemical Industry	 Manufacturing Industry	 Wheat producton	B333. Which country imports iron most?	 Germany	 France	 Sweden	 Japan	D334. Chittaranjan is famous for:	 Cotton manufacturing Industry	 Sugar Industry	 Fertilizer Industry	 Locomotive Industry	D335. Which of the following is not a mineral ?	 Slate	 Limestone	 Coal	 Calcite	A336. Which one is the biggest planet of the Solar system?	 Mercury	 Earth	 Pluto	 Jupiter	D337. Rourkela Steel Plant of Orissa gets its iron ore from:	 Noamundi	 Bonai	 Barsua	 All above	D338. 'Meghalaya' is the name given to the region corresponding to:	 Lushai Hill Region	 Garo-Khasi Hill Region	 Nefa Region	 Nagaland	B339. Which of the following is a port in Persian Gulf?	 Port Said	 Suez Port	 Eden Port	 Bandar Abbas	D340. The strait of Hormuz joins which of the following water bodies:	 Red sea and Mediterranean sea	 Persian Gulf and Gulf of Oman	 Caspian sea and Black sea	 Gulf of Oman and Arabian sea	B341. Which of the following lies on the left bank of the Ganga?	 Kanpur	 Patna	 Allahabad	 Varanasi	D342. Bhor Ghat gap gives access to the railway link between:	 Mumbai and Jalgaon	 Mumbai and Pune	 Cochin and Coimbatore	 Trivandrum and Kanyakumari	B343. We generally measure the depth of the Sea in:	 Feet	 Fathoms	 Metres	 Nautical miles	B344. Hanging valleys are formed due to the action of:	 River	 Glacier	 Waves of the ocean	 Volcanic eruption	B"345. In the northern hemisphere, due to Ferrel's law the wind is deflected:"	 Towards its right	 Towards its left	 Towards its north	 Towards its south	A346. The largest number of jute mills are located along:	 Ganga Valley	 Brahmaputra Valley	 Godavari basin	 Hooghly basin	D347. Mettur dam is built on the:	 Godavari river	 Krishna river	 Kaveri (Cauvery) river	 Tungabhadra river	C348. The phases of moon are caused by:	 The rotation of the earth	 The rotation of the moon	 The revolution of the earth	 The revolution of the moon	B349. The average time interval between successive high tide and low tide is:	 12 hours and 26 minutes	 6 hours and 12 minutes	 24 hours and 52 minutes	 50 minutes	C350. The planet with the shortest year is:	 Earth	 Mercury	 Mars	 Pluto	B"B,281. Which of the following ports does not have an oil refinery?"	 Cochin	 Chennai	 Tuticoran	 Mumbai	C"C,211. When does it rains in the Central valley of Chile?"	 In summer	 In winter	 Throughout the year	 Never	B"A,141. Which one of the following is used for measuring the speed of wind?"	 Hygrometer	 Barometer	 Anemometer	 Thermometer	C"A,71. The canals of Kerala state are:"	 Canals of Nagarjunasagar irrigation works	 Canals of Rampadsagar irrigation works	 Canals of Mangalam irrigation scheme	 Canals of the Mettur irrigation scheme	C